Add ML tutorials (#7180)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _ml-commons-plugin/tutorials/semantic-search-byte-vectors.md

---
layout: default

> title: Semantic search using byte vectors

Author: This is for left nav so it's shortened

parent: Tutorials
nav_order: 10
---

> # Semantic search using byte quantized vectors

Reviewer: Should the titles match, or is it shortened for navigation menu?

Author: Shortened for left nav :)

> # Semantic search using byte quantized vectors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Semantic search using byte-quantized vectors
```

                    "shape": [
                        1024
                    ],
                    "data": [
                        20,
                        -11,
                        -60,
                        -91,
                        ...
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "name": "sentence_embedding",
                    "data_type": "FLOAT32",
                    "shape": [
                        1024
                    ],
                    "data": [
                        58,
                        -30,
                        9,
                        -51,
                        ...
                    ]
                }
            ],
            "status_code": 200
        }
    ]
}
```

## Step 2: Ingest data

First, create an ingest pipeline:

```json
PUT /_ingest/pipeline/pipeline-cohere
{
  "description": "Cohere embedding ingest pipeline",
  "processors": [
    {
      "text_embedding": {
        "model_id": "your_embedding_model_id_created_in_step1",
        "field_map": {
          "passage_text": "passage_embedding"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Next, create a k-NN index and set the `data_type` on the `passage_embedding` field to `byte` so it can hold quantized byte vectors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, create a k-NN index and set the `data_type` on the `passage_embedding` field to `byte` so it can hold byte-quantized vectors:
```

        "dimension": 1024,
        "data_type": "byte",
        "method": {
          "name": "hnsw",
          "space_type": "l2",
          "engine": "lucene",
          "parameters": {
            "ef_construction": 128,
            "m": 24
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Last, ingest test data:

```json
POST _bulk
{ "index" : { "_index" : "my_test_data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "OpenSearch is the flexible, scalable, open-source way to build solutions for data-intensive applications. Explore, enrich, and visualize your data with built-in performance, developer-friendly tools, and powerful integrations for machine learning, data processing, and more." }
{ "index" : { "_index" : "my_test_data"} }
{ "passage_text" : "BM25 is a keyword-based algorithm that performs well on queries containing keywords but fails to capture the semantic meaning of the query terms. Semantic search, unlike keyword-based search, takes into account the meaning of the query in the search context. Thus, semantic search performs well when a query requires natural language understanding." }
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Step 3: Configure semantic search

> Create a connector to an embedding model that has the `search_query` input type:

Author: ```suggestion
Create a connector to an embedding model with the `search_query` input type:
```
